# 2.2.2 Data Binding

UI reflects dynamic data, users may trigger the change, so there must be a way to bind dynamic data to UI view. In a web app, developers use JavaScript to call DOM API to update UI. While in Mini Program, Data Binding feature of WXML is used to accomplish this.

Let's see a simple example first.

Modify `pages/wxml/index.wxml` file a little as following:

*code snippet 2-5 data binding example*
```xml
<!--pages/wxml/index.wxml-->

<text>current time：{{time}}</text>
```

Save and you can see the time is not displayed. This is because we haven't set any value to `time` yet. Open `pages/wxml/index.js` in your editor, add `time:(new Date()).toString()` in `data` block, as following snippet:

*code snippet 2-6 data binding example*
```xml
// pages/wxml/index.js

Page({

  /**

   * initial data for the page

   */

  data: {

    time: (new Date()).toString()

  },

})
```

Save then you can see time is displayed, and updated every time it is compiled.

WXML uses `{{variableName}}` to bind data from JavaScript. (To keep things clean, we only use comment to show JavaScript code)

*code snippet 2-7 Display Format*

```xml
<!--

{

  time: (new Date()).toString()

}

-->

<text>current time: {{time}}</text>
```

Property value can also be changed dynamically, with value being wrapped in double quotes, as follows:

*code snippet 2-8 Binding Property Value*
```xml
<!-- correct -->

<text data-test="{{test}}"> hello world</text>



<!-- wrong  -->

<text data-test={{test}}> hello world </text >
```

Attention that variable name is also case sensitive, so {{name}} and {{Name}} is different.

*code snippet 2-9 Binding is case sensitive*

```xml
<!--

{

  w: 'w',

  W: 'W'

}

-->



<view>{{w}}</view>

<view>{{W}}</view>



<!-- output

w

W

-->
```

Also attention that undefined variables will not be bond to wxml. Following is an example.

*code snippet 2-10 undefined will not be rendered*
```xml
<!--

{

  var2: undefined,

  var3: null,

  var4: "var4"

}

-->



<view>{{var1}}</view>

<view>{{var2}}</view>

<view>{{var3}}</view>

<view>{{var4}}</view>



<!--

output：

null

var4

-->
```

There will be a more detailed explanation about data binding in Chapter 3


