# 1.1 Introduction

## 1.1.1 History of Mini Program
In the aspect of technology, Mini Program is not a new thing. WeChat already started to offer JS APIs in its WebView since long ago when it became a more and more role in mobile web.

Some developers may find this familiar:

*code snippet 1-1: Preview images with WeixinJSBridge*
```js
WeixinJSBridge.invoke('imagePreview', {
    current: 'http://inews.gtimg.com/newsapp_bt/0/1693121381/641',
    urls: [ // All image URLs in an array
        'https://img1.gtimg.com/10/1048/104857/10485731_980x1200_0.jpg',
        'https://img1.gtimg.com/10/1048/104857/10485726_980x1200_0.jpg',
        'https://img1.gtimg.com/10/1048/104857/10485729_980x1200_0.jpg'
    ]
}, function(res) {
    console.log(res.err_msg)
})
```
This is a JS API to trigger native WeChat image previewer. It is obviously simpler and more performant than using some JS libraries based on DOM.

As a matter of fact, WeChat didn't announce the existence of these APIs at the very first, because they were for internal use. Many developers outside of WeChat found them and started to use them in a similar fashion. As more and more developers acknowledged,  it became the de facto standard in WeChat's WebView. 

In early 2015, WeChat released the JS-SDK, which contains lots of APIs for Camera, Voice Recording, Voice Recognition, QR code, Map, Pay and Sharing .etc. These APIs enables all developers to use native power from WeChat App to accomplish things that couldn't be done before.

This is also a snippet to preview images, but with JS-SDK:

*code snippet 1-2: Preview images with JS-SDK*
```js
wx.previewImage({
  current: 'https://img1.gtimg.com/10/1048/104857/10485726_980x1200_0.jpg',
  urls: [ // 所有图片的URL列表，数组格式
    'https://img1.gtimg.com/10/1048/104857/10485731_980x1200_0.jpg',
    'https://img1.gtimg.com/10/1048/104857/10485726_980x1200_0.jpg',
    'https://img1.gtimg.com/10/1048/104857/10485729_980x1200_0.jpg'
  ],
  success: function(res) {
    console.log(res)
  }
})
```

JS-SDK is a wrapper for WeixinJSBrige, with new abilities. From usage data, most of web pages shared in WeChat are using JS-SDK, which proves its popularity.

JS-SDK extends mobile web pages with APIs exposed from Native App, but still it doesn't solve the problem of bad user experience.

When a new web page is opened, there is a white blank moment before it is fully loaded and rendered. This becomes more significant in mobile devices because of the lower device spec and poor network. Our team put a lot of efforts to help developers overcome this problem, and the result is "enhanced version of JS-SDK". One of the enhanced features is "**WeChat Offline Storage**".

Following is from internal document(which is not public):

> WeChat Offline Storage is a solution for acceleration in WeChat.

> With Offline Storage,  web developers can access local resources rather than fetching it from remote servers, which cut down the loading time and generate faster experience. Every Official Account has up to 5M storage quota for all of its web apps.

This storage is similar to HTML5 Application Cache, but it fixes its problems.

During our internal test, we found that offline storage indeed helps some of the problems, but still doesn't completely solve "white screen problem" mentioned above. For example, when a web page uses lots of external CSS or JS resources,  UI thread will be taken up and the web page will be still "white" now and then. And handling resources' cache is very complicated, developers' skill level is required.

Besides white screen, another problem is "**slow response to user interaction**", which could be categorized to "**janky page transitions**" and "**latency in finger taps**".

For experienced developers, SPA frameworks could be used to mimic smooth page transitions from Native Apps. The common way of doing it is to create multiple pages in one WebView and use CSS for the smooth animation. With elaborated techniques both in CSS and JS, the above two problem can be solved to some extent, but not all developer have the time and resources to accomplish that.

The problem WeChat faces is to find a solution that **enables developers of all levels to create apps with good user experience**. This just cannot be solved with just a JS-SDK, a whole new system is required to make following possible:

* faster Loading
* more abilities
* native-like experience
* simple & safe access to WeChat's data
* simple to develop

And this system is **Mini Program**.
