## 3.2.1 Program
Mini Program means program in service level, "Program" means program instance in code level, to avoid misunderstanding, we'll use App to refer "Program".

### 1. Constructor `App()`
Host environment provide `App()` to create a new App, `App()` must be put in `app.js` at the root folder. App is singleton, in other JS scripts, `getApp()` can be used to access the instance.

*code snippet 3-3 getApp()*
```js
// other.js

var appInstance = getApp()
```

Like following code snippets shows, `App()` accepts an Object as parameter. Paramter details are listed in the table below. `onLaunch`, `onShow`, `onHide` are lifycycle hooks of an app, we'll look at them later. `onError` will be explained in Chpater 8.

*code snippet 3-4 App constructor*
```js
App({
  onLaunch: function(options) {},
  onShow: function(options) {},
  onHide: function() {},
  onError: function(msg) {},
  globalData: 'I am global data'
})
```

*table 3-1 Paramters of `App()`

paramter name | type | description
--------------|------|-------------
onLaunch | Function | called only once when app is initialized
onShow | Function | called when app starts, or comes to foreground from background
onHide | Function | called when app goes to background
onError | Function | called when errors happen, or API fails.
other fields | any | these custom fields are assigned to the the App instance

### 2. Lifecycle and Opening Scene

The first time mini program is opend, WeChat Native prepares the host environment, get mini program code package from remote or cache and injects them into host environment, when everything is initialized, WeChat will call `onLaunch()` of App instance.

Mini Program could be closed by tapping the close button at top right,
or switched to backgrounde mode by tapping Homde button, but in either cases mini programs are not terminated. `onHide()` will be called.

When mini program is opend again, WeChat Native will activate the instance at background, and set it to foreground, and `onShow()` will be called.

We can see that lifecycle hooks are called automatically by WeChat App's response to user interactions. To avoid confusions in program, **we shouldn't call lifecycle hooks manually**. 

There are many scenes of mini program being opened, it maybe opened in groupd chat, in mini program list, from QR code scanning or event from another mini program. For the needs to different logic according to different opening scenes, `onLaunch()` and `onShow()` will be attached with these information as paramter `options`. Details of these paramters are listed in code snippet 3-5 and table 3-2. These scenario may change rapidly so please refer to the official document: https://mp.weixin.qq.com/debug/wxadoc/dev/framework/app-service/app.html

*code snippet 3-5 onLaunch and onShow*
```js
App({
  onLaunch: function(options) { console.log(options) },
  onShow: function(options) { console.log(options) }
})
```

*table 3-2 paramters of onLaunch and onShow*

field | type | description
------|------|------------
path | String | the current path of app being opened
query | Object | query object
scene | Number | scene ids, refer to official document for details
shareTicket | String | shareTicket, refer to official document for details
referrrerInfo | Object | when opened from another mini program or Official Account
referrerInfo.appId | String | appId of referrer mini progra of Official Account, details as below
referrerInfo.extraData | Object | data passed when scene is 1037 or 1038

*table 3-3 following scenes support referrrerInfo.appId*

scene Id | scene | meaning of appId 
---------|-------|------------------
1020 | related mini program list in Official Account profile | official account appId
1035 | Official Account custom menu | official account appId
1036 | App Share Message card | source app's appId
1037 | opened in another mini program | source mini program's appId
1038 | returned from another mini program | source mini program's appId
1043 | official account's template message | source official account's appId

### 3. Global Data

We've already explained in 3.1.2 that JS scripts in mini program are run in JsCore, every page have its own WebView, so when page switching happens in mini program, the scripts are still in the same JS core process.

App is singleton, so this instance can be used to share data across pages. App constructor can be used to initialize the global data.

*code 3-6 Global Data*
```js
// app.js
App({
  globalData: 'I am global data' // global data
})
// another script: other.js
var appInstance = getApp()
console.log(appInstance.globalData) // output: I am global data
```

At the same time, because all scripts are run in the same JSCore, timers or intervals created by `setTimeout()`/`setInterval()` are not cleared automatically when page switches, they have to be cleared manually.