## 3.4 API

Host environment for mini programs offers various APIs from WeChat Native. Such as `wx.navigateTo()` in previous example, it stores current page and redirects page to a new one. `wx` here is the global Object from host environment, nearly all APIs are on this object (except special constructors like `Page`, `App`). So "API" in the chapter mainly means methods under `wx`.

APIs can be categorized to Network, Media, File, Cache, Location, Device, UI, Element and other ones. Here is the common rule of API calling:

1. `wx.on*` is some event listeners, accept a callback as parameter. When the event is triggered, the callback is run
2. Unless annotated, most APIs are async, accepting an Object as parameter
3. The parameter Object usually supports three callbacks: `success`, `fail`, `complete`, as shown in code snippet 3-17
4. `wx.get*` are APIs to get data from host environment.
5. `wx.set*` are APIs to write data to host environment.

*code snippet 3-17 network request through `wx.request`
```js
wx.request({
url: 'test.php',
data: {},
header: { 'content-type': 'application/json' },
success: function(res) {
 // when http request suceeds
 console.log(res.data)
},
fail: function() {
 // when error happens in request
},
complete: function() {
 // when request completes, either succeeds or fails
}
})
```

*table 3-9 API callbacks*

parameter name | type | mandatory | description
success | Function | no | callbak when API suceeds
fail | Function | no | callback when API fails
complete | Function | no | callback when API complets

Attention most APIs are async, and some API will call out native views, which leads to `onHide()` in `Page` being called .

There are many many APIs, as the host environment envolves new APIs are added. Here we don't explain the details of all APIs, but the common skills. More details could be found in  https://mp.weixin.qq.com/debug/wxadoc/dev/api/. In Chapter 4 we will show more use cases. 
